# First day, First Hurdle

It's 10am when I arrive for my first day working as a junior software engineer for holidayCheck, my co-workers are waiting for me in the corridor and I'm already sweating an uncomfortable amount due to the heat. After a short introduction to the team I'll be working with we proceed up a flight of stairs, through a labyrinth of corridors and into a large office space. On the table sits out equipment and swag for each of the three new starts amongst which includes a flask, a notepad, a pen, a set of headphones, a canvas carrier bag, some recommended reading and a laptop for each of us.

After some light conversation we are seated and prepare to set-up our workstations and accounts, I turn on my laptop and prepared to wait for it to boot. Almost instantly I'm caught of guard by a cybernetic voice dictating incompressible sounds and phrases. I glance at the exit but before I could get out of my seat a co-workers hand stretched out in-front of me and with a few clicks the voice subsided. I spend a few moments wondering what it wanted then I was informed the voices name is Cortana the assistant for windows 10.

Fortunately I remembered to bring a boot-able thumb-drive so I could install linux, I turn the machine off, insert the thumb drive and prepare to go through the usual installation procedure. Which usually involved repartitioning the hard-drive `fdisk -l` lists details about the drive and the partition table. I notice a few interesting details about the table I've never encounter before instead of the device names starting with /dev/sd they start with /dev/nvme0n and a GTP disklabel instead of an MBR. I assume these nuance differences and proceed to make a boot, swap and root partitions the mounting and installing the operating system as normal then change root directory of the system from the thumb-drive to the hard-drive with the freshly installed system on it to carry out some final configuration before rebooting.

After rebooting the computer I expected to set the usual start up displays and options but instead I was greeted by an empty black screen... something has gone wrong. I begin to mentally retrace my steps to find out where I my have gone wrong but can think of nothing, so I pull out my mobile phone and begin to search Google for possible comparability issues with the operating system and the device to find nothing of relevance. Then I think of the previous differences with the device names and labels and search for those to find that the differences where more important than anticipated. I search for information about the meaning of these names and labels to find that not all devices and drives facilitate backward comparability with the partitioning layout I've become used too over the years.

At this point I've no option but to remove the partitioning table and convert it back from an master boot record (MBR)[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_boot_record] table to a GUID partition table (GTP)[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GUID_Partition_Table] then try reinstalling the operating system on to that. I turn of the computer stick the boot-able thumb drive back, turn the power back on and proceed to delete the previous partitions, change the disk-label to GTP, repartition the hard-disk and go through the whole process again. I get all the way to the installing the boot loader to be confronted with this message "grub-install: error: cannot find EFI directory.". The what? I think to myself, once again I'm back on google trying to find out what this message is about only to find out I have once again made a terrible error and must start all over again.

Third attempt at repartitioning, reinstalling and reconfiguring the system goes much the same as the previous attempts but this time an extra partition has been added at the start of the disk to facilitate (EFI)[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface] booting. Everything seems to be working and I reboot the system.

Upon rebooting I'm greeted by a kernel message saying "cannot find device 2acb1854-e1fc-49a2-9403-4461b469a829". Looks like I made another mistake generating the (fstab)[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/fstab] it's easy to fix but requires booting from the thumb-drive to access and make changes to /etc/fstab.

So after a day and a half on spent on a task that ought to take fifteen minutes I am now able to start setting up my accounts.
